[Wall of text on Ehime Mbano history](https://olivernwokedi.wordpress.com/2015/02/06/welcome-to-mr-nwokedis-blog/)

Ehime Mbano is a Local Government Area of Imo State, Nigeria. Its headquarters are in the town of Umuezeala Owerre. It has an area of 169 square km and a population of 130,931 at the 2006 census. The postal code of the area is 472. Ehime Mbano Local Government Area Geo Political is in Okigwe senatorial zone that was carved out of the former Mbano L.G.A. in 1989 with its Headquarters Umuezeala, it is made up of five major clans namely Umueze, Agbaja Umukabia, Akanumuezeala, Nneato Ugwumezi and Nsu with twenty nine Autonomous communities. From the North by Onuimo you get to Ehime Mbano. Also from the South through Ahiazu you get to Ehime Mbano and from the East and West by Ihittte/Uboma and Isiala Mbano you get to Ehime Mbano L.G.A. MISSION STATEMENT The mission statement of the local government area is for grass root development. Extending development to all the rural areas of the L.G.A.There was no date within recorded history to say it was when Ehime settled in Igu hill, but sources from the tales and oral tradition put the date tentatively within 15th century. Ehime married and had six sons, Eze was his first son who in turn married and begot seven sons among who was Duru. The father of Umuduregwelle. In prehistoric times, Duru one day, embarked on an adventurous journey( a hunting expedition) which took him through the south forest axis and across a river which he names “Eze Alakpa River” as he crossed the river he discovered a vast arable land. After many days on the expedition he finally returned home and narrated to his brothers how his adventure led to his discovery of a vast arable land across the river lying south of Umueze clan. His brothers joyfully said DuruEgwelle-Ije, this coinage was used to describe an unbelievable, wonderful and courageous journey made by Duru, since then his brothers maintained that name as a feat of heroic achievement and that became there ancestral name “Duruegwelle”. The descendants therefore were called Umuduregwelle(umu-means children). As they finally moved for settlement, he resided first at Dara Ama Area which presently houses “The Grace Palace” the dwelling place of Egwelle Di Oha Nma I, the first recognised ruling monarch of duruegwelle land. Duruegwelle married and had two sins in order of seniority, namely,These eight sons of Duruegwelle marriedand developed the eight villages(Ama-Asato) that constituted Umuduregwelle. Duruegwelle sons and daughters do not intermarry, as it is a taboo to do so. The vastness of the discovered area on the southern pole of Umueze clan by Duru made his brother Wokwe and his offspring’s to crossover the river on the western side to join him. Eventually they settled and retained their name Umuokwe as a. distinct group. Not long again, another brother of Duru called Eleke and his offspring’s pulled from Umueze Ama area to occupy a certain portion of the excess land area eastward. They settled and also retained their name Umueleke as another distinct group. History holds that these three communities of the same ancestry lived peacefully for many years as Umueze Bi Na Owerre in an amalgamation called “Okwe Na Duru/Umeleke”. Full government autonomy was granted to Umuduregwelle in 2003 by Governor Achike Udenwa led administration with his royal highness Eze Daniel Emereonye from Umudara Ama village as the first recognized Eze of Umuduregwelle. Umuduregwelle is bound to the north by Umueze Ama community, to the south by Oparanadim Ahiazu Mbaise LGA, to the East by Umueleke community and to the west by Umuokwe(Umueze II community). Umuduruegwelle people are essential example of valiant men of war. Because of the density of her population and vast arable land mass, the people’s economic lives revolves around Agriculture and Trade, there main products are palm oil,cassava and palm wine, in large quantities. Today as a result of procreation Umuduruegwelle has sixteen(16) viable villages with their village heads/chiefs as follows in order of seniority: 1)Umudara Ama 2)Umudire Isi Obi 3)Umuezealagwu 4)Umudimeze 5)Umuezealaebo 6)Umuchukwu 7)Umuebeze 8)Umunkaru 9)Eboduru Na Duruehota 10)Umudire Ama 11)Umuduruiheako 12)Ukwuegbu 13)Umuorji 14)Isi Nkpacha 15)Umuduruebo 16)Arozo Na Dimori… The postal code of the area is 472.

---

